README.md, before:

# Background

More individuals, organizations and companies are starting to realize the potential of open source. An important question is obviously how projects can be funded to enable individuals to subsist and work on open source full time. This document aims to be an open guide to grant funding of open source projects.

## Grants

A list of funding opportunities that follow the grants model. This type of funding is usually carried out in batches, i.e. the fund in question release a certain amount of money each year and it's spread out over multiple projects. Grant funding often allows you to plan and execute projects over a longer period of time.

### Horizon 2020

http://ec.europa.eu/programmes/horizon2020/en/what-horizon-2020

Horizon 2020 is the biggest EU Research and Innovation programme ever with nearly €80 billion of funding available over between 2014 and 2020. You need a consortium to apply. See Holger Krekels talk at 32c3 (link below) for a more detailed description.

### InnovationsFonden

http://innovationsfonden.dk/da/faq-innobooster

`InnovationsFonden` or `Innovation Fund Denmark` invests in both large and small projects and they don't require any stake in the project nor repayment. They have three different programs targeting the whole range from large scale research projects to smaller enterprises and entrepreneurs down to talented individuals within the research space. Funds can be anything between 50k to 5M DKK depending on the size of the project.

### InternetFonden

https://www.internetfonden.se/om/

InternetFonden is a Swedish fund run by *Internetstiftelsen i Sverige* or IIS, which administer the Swedish `.se` TLD. Parts of the earnings from selling .se domains goes to various projects that benefit the development of internet in Sweden and one of them is InternetFonden. Since 2004 the fund has financed [323 projects](https://www.internetfonden.se/projekt/) for a total of 65M SEK (7.7M USD/7.1M EUR/5.2M GBP). Applicants can be companies, organizations or private people as long as they have a Swedish organization number or social security number.

### Mozilla Open Source Support (MOSS)

https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/moss/, https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/grants/

Mozilla Open Source Support (MOSS) is a grant program specifically focused on supporting the Open Source and Free Software movement, with an initial allocation of USD $1 million.

### Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII)

https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/

The Core Infrastructure Initiative, or CII, is a multi-million dollar project to fund and support critical elements of the global information infrastructure. It is organized by The Linux Foundation and supported by companies like Amazon Web Services, Google and IBM. CII was formed as a response to the Heartbleed security crisis; however, the Initiative’s efforts will not be restricted to crypto-related issues in the long term.

### SIDN Fund

https://www.sidnfonds.nl/excerpt/

From the `SIDN` homepage:

> SIDN Fund stands for ‘a strong internet for all’. We provide financial support to ideas and projects that aim to make the internet stronger or that use the internet in innovative ways. By doing so, SIDN Fund wants to help increase the social impact of the internet in the Netherlands.

Similarly to `InnovationsFonden`, `SIDN` also funds projects on different levels. Smaller projects - `Pioneer projects` - can receive a maximum of 10k EUR and larger projects - `Potentials projects` - up to 75k EUR.

### The Awesome Foundation

http://www.awesomefoundation.org/en/about_us

Apply for grants and get funded $1000 at a time.

### Knight Foundation

https://www.knightfoundation.org/about

> Knight Foundation is a national foundation with strong local roots. We invest in journalism, in the arts, and in the success of cities where brothers John S. and James L. Knight once published newspapers. Our goal is to foster informed and engaged communities, which we believe are essential for a healthy democracy.

## Notable Projects

List of notable projects that have received grants.

### DAT

https://datproject.org/

From the `DAT` homepage:

> Dat is a grant-funded, open-source, decentralized data sharing tool for efficiently versioning and syncing changes to data.

Funded by [`Knight Foundation`](https://www.knightfoundation.org/grants/201346305/).

### OPENCARE

http://edgeryders.eu/en/opencare/welcome-to-opencare

OPENCARE is a project trying to figure out ways of combining modern science and technology with communities. It got funded 1.6M EUR by Horizon 2020. You can read their proposal [here](http://edgeryders.eu/sites/default/files/OpenCare%20%E2%80%93%20final.pdf).

### GHOST

https://ghost.org/about/

Ghost is an open source blogging platform. The project is run and organized by The Ghost Foundation, which is a non-profit organization. Ghost is completely free to use if you host it yourself. You can pay for it if you need help with hosting your blog. This is what funds further development and The Ghost Foundation calls this *Sustainable Open Source*.

## Also see

* [Holger Krekel at 32c3 - Hacking EU funding for a decentralizing FOSS project](https://media.ccc.de/v/32c3-7300-hacking_eu_funding_for_a_decentralizing_foss_project#video&t=790)
* [Paying the Piper](https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper)
* [Funding OSS](https://github.com/jayfk/fundingoss.com)
* [Awesome Indie](https://github.com/mezod/awesome-indie)
* [Awesome Open Company](https://github.com/opencompany/awesome-open-company)

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />All content submitted to this project is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

add Read the Docs, tweak dat links

README.md, after:

# Background

More individuals, organizations and companies are starting to realize the potential of open source. An important question is obviously how projects can be funded to enable individuals to subsist and work on open source full time. This document aims to be an open guide to grant funding of open source projects.

## Grants

A list of funding opportunities that follow the grants model. This type of funding is usually carried out in batches, i.e. the fund in question release a certain amount of money each year and it's spread out over multiple projects. Grant funding often allows you to plan and execute projects over a longer period of time.

### Horizon 2020

http://ec.europa.eu/programmes/horizon2020/en/what-horizon-2020

Horizon 2020 is the biggest EU Research and Innovation programme ever with nearly €80 billion of funding available over between 2014 and 2020. You need a consortium to apply. See Holger Krekels talk at 32c3 (link below) for a more detailed description.

### InnovationsFonden

http://innovationsfonden.dk/da/faq-innobooster

`InnovationsFonden` or `Innovation Fund Denmark` invests in both large and small projects and they don't require any stake in the project nor repayment. They have three different programs targeting the whole range from large scale research projects to smaller enterprises and entrepreneurs down to talented individuals within the research space. Funds can be anything between 50k to 5M DKK depending on the size of the project.

### InternetFonden

https://www.internetfonden.se/om/

InternetFonden is a Swedish fund run by *Internetstiftelsen i Sverige* or IIS, which administer the Swedish `.se` TLD. Parts of the earnings from selling .se domains goes to various projects that benefit the development of internet in Sweden and one of them is InternetFonden. Since 2004 the fund has financed [323 projects](https://www.internetfonden.se/projekt/) for a total of 65M SEK (7.7M USD/7.1M EUR/5.2M GBP). Applicants can be companies, organizations or private people as long as they have a Swedish organization number or social security number.

### Mozilla Open Source Support (MOSS)

https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/moss/, https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/grants/

Mozilla Open Source Support (MOSS) is a grant program specifically focused on supporting the Open Source and Free Software movement, with an initial allocation of USD $1 million.

### Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII)

https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/

The Core Infrastructure Initiative, or CII, is a multi-million dollar project to fund and support critical elements of the global information infrastructure. It is organized by The Linux Foundation and supported by companies like Amazon Web Services, Google and IBM. CII was formed as a response to the Heartbleed security crisis; however, the Initiative’s efforts will not be restricted to crypto-related issues in the long term.

### SIDN Fund

https://www.sidnfonds.nl/excerpt/

From the `SIDN` homepage:

> SIDN Fund stands for ‘a strong internet for all’. We provide financial support to ideas and projects that aim to make the internet stronger or that use the internet in innovative ways. By doing so, SIDN Fund wants to help increase the social impact of the internet in the Netherlands.

Similarly to `InnovationsFonden`, `SIDN` also funds projects on different levels. Smaller projects - `Pioneer projects` - can receive a maximum of 10k EUR and larger projects - `Potentials projects` - up to 75k EUR.

### The Awesome Foundation

http://www.awesomefoundation.org/en/about_us

Apply for grants and get funded $1000 at a time.

### Knight Foundation

https://www.knightfoundation.org/about

> Knight Foundation is a national foundation with strong local roots. We invest in journalism, in the arts, and in the success of cities where brothers John S. and James L. Knight once published newspapers. Our goal is to foster informed and engaged communities, which we believe are essential for a healthy democracy.

## Notable Projects

List of notable projects that have received grants.

### DAT

Website: https://datproject.org/
Github: https://github.com/datproject/

From the `DAT` homepage:

> Dat is a grant-funded, open-source, decentralized data sharing tool for efficiently versioning and syncing changes to data.

Funded by [`Knight Foundation`](https://www.knightfoundation.org/grants/201346305/).

### OPENCARE

http://edgeryders.eu/en/opencare/welcome-to-opencare

OPENCARE is a project trying to figure out ways of combining modern science and technology with communities. It got funded 1.6M EUR by Horizon 2020. You can read their proposal [here](http://edgeryders.eu/sites/default/files/OpenCare%20%E2%80%93%20final.pdf).

### GHOST

https://ghost.org/about/

Ghost is an open source blogging platform. The project is run and organized by The Ghost Foundation, which is a non-profit organization. Ghost is completely free to use if you host it yourself. You can pay for it if you need help with hosting your blog. This is what funds further development and The Ghost Foundation calls this *Sustainable Open Source*.

### Read the Docs

Website: https://readthedocs.org/
Github: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org

Funded by [MOSS](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/moss/).

## Also see

* [Holger Krekel at 32c3 - Hacking EU funding for a decentralizing FOSS project](https://media.ccc.de/v/32c3-7300-hacking_eu_funding_for_a_decentralizing_foss_project#video&t=790)
* [Paying the Piper](https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper)
* [Funding OSS](https://github.com/jayfk/fundingoss.com)
* [Awesome Indie](https://github.com/mezod/awesome-indie)
* [Awesome Open Company](https://github.com/opencompany/awesome-open-company)

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />All content submitted to this project is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
